## Where Does B2B Web Traffic for High Dollar Value Products/Services Typically Come From?

- posted by: [Community](https://stackexchange.com/users/-1/-1-community) on 2011-05-11
- tagged: `website`, `seo`, `b2b`, `enterprise`, `vendors`
- score: 1

I am participating in the design of a web site for a B2B (enterprise software) vendor, whose offering has an initial buy-in in the low 5 digits and above. 

We have identified three types of stakeholders whom we wish to speak to in our messages: executives and owners; business managers; and IT managers. 

Is it plausible that, given good SEO work, we will see significant, relevant inbound traffic from any of these groups?

I see executives and business managers (the two primary groups who would drive a purchase decision) as generally not going out on the web and looking for enterprise products.

I see a web presence for this type of vendor as being seen by relevant visitors (IE, those in our targeted groups) because they were visited by a sales person or received direct mail, and went to the URL printed on the business card. 

In other words, I see a site like this as being driven by traffic generated by personal contacts, not as being driven from SEO. 

People Google for a text editor or for an accounting package. They don't Google for an enterprise HR system. Or do they? 

If end users *do* Google for enterprise software, then we need to understand how they would look for it.

The reason this impacts us is that we need to allocate effort between copywriting and SEO, and we need to understand if SEO is even fruitful at this level. We are unclear whether we should have entry pages for each type of stakeholder, or just focus on one type of stakeholder. 


## Answer 24772

- posted by: [Kenneth Vogt](https://stackexchange.com/users/-1/6736-kenneth-vogt) on 2011-05-11
- score: 1

In my involvement with enterprise software in the past, the website was almost never the initiation point. However that doesn't mean that the website and SEO are not important. Once a personal contact is made, the web is a good place for vetting. (Perhaps not for actually validating your solution, but as "social proof".)

So to answer your question about stakeholder entry points, I think you do need to differentiate them. Your salespeople can then point them to the perfect landing page in their case. If the prospect is also able to find the right information via Google, this just strengthens your stature.


## Answer 24774

- posted by: [Joseph Barisonzi](https://stackexchange.com/users/-1/8791-joseph-barisonzi) on 2011-05-11
- score: 1

My experience is that your website will play a role in your overall B2B C-office sales effort -- but it will not be in the lead generation side of things. 

Which does not mean you wont have a strong SEOptimized site -- it means that the business metrix for it will be different. Integrated into your overall lead generation strategy -- which  am betting will develop around referral and trusted advisors -- your website will support the conversion of leads to specific opportunities. 

Your referral agents and partners will know how to direct their clients/friends to specific landing pages and squeeze pages to answer specific questions. They will then be picked up by your live chat which address specific concerns or issues -- and gets a qualified referral into the purchasing agent within the company. 

Your overall social media strategy built into the website will be about promoting your expertise in specific areas. (Check out @Kenneth's solution to support that effort)  Your overall advertising strategy will be to put yourself directly in front of the targeted audience at a time they are open to considering new ideas -- like at conferences. And you will augment that direct advertising with extensive follow-up opportunities. 

You will have a parallel campaign to identify, qualify and close referral agents. But of course, that is a different question isn't it! 

Or at least, that is how I would do it! 



---

All content is licensed under the [CC BY-SA 3.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).
